# Mentoring Session 2 Feedback Notes

Mentor - Bob Boiko


Feedback:
Nudges

Motivators (Developing good habits, breaking bad habits)
	• It isn't easy to break bad habits. Nagging doesn't work
	• What does break a habit:
		○ Start to associate behavior with some good outcome
			§ Example: an ice cream cone. Every time you do something positive for your health, you get an ice cream cone. Positive reinforcement
		○ Self-Concept
			§ When you decide by yourself to do good habits, you no longer need the nagging. How do you push people to be better adults by themselves?
			§ How does our app facilitate people to understand that being an adult is a choice, and give them a way to change their attitude and personality
			§ Main way people change their ways/ideas, is changing who they surround themselves with
		○ What can our app do to simulate these processes?
			§ Offering sliders to allow people to gauge where they see themselves at to get the profile started
			§ Feedback: Maybe have some personas, having examples of people and where they are at life as far as adulting goes to be examples for users. Will allow for users to be able to see who they would want to emulate, and allow for them to decide how far into "adulting" they want to go. Simulating the idea of having a role model
				□ Can have levels of adults that people can move towards. Move away from the attitude of nagging people to do the right stuff. Use the carrot in the "who do you want to be, and how do you get to be like them?"
				□ Will allow for them to have a virtual persona for them to compete with or act as a pacer
				□ Have the personas work with them, can have bonuses for how well people emulate their targets
				□ Not telling people they are good or bad, just comparing them to our personas
				□ People will make excuses for why they didn't do things, but if you take away those hiding places by having them decide what persona they want to be like, it doesn't give them a choice to make excuses
	• What motivates people to get these fake internet or reward points?
		○ Look at video games, they don't give you anything, you give them money and they give you virtual junk. Don't feel like it has to be tangible in order for it to work
		○ Techniques: if there is always a level that you are trying to strive for, like a persona and is obtainable, people will stay wanting to get to a level if it is reasonable. Can watch the bar to try to get that next level
			§ Driven forward towards achievement. Providing levels that are obtainable
			§ Standing: See how you are standing relatively compared to other people. Maybe have like a support group of people who are all trying to move to the next persona. Can you team up with people in some way? How much money can you collectively save per month? Have some cooperation as well as competition
		○ Give people on a minute-by-minute presentation that they like
			§ Video games like good movies and books, you're escaping reality. Doesn't work for adulting because you can't escape it, but look for a bottom line motivation that will get them over the hump
	• In 5 weeks you'll be standing in a room with a poster at Capstone, what does it mean to be successful?
		○ Imagiine all those people in the room, and you're the one with the poster
		○ There are all sorts of classes of people. People who don't give a shit and are already full… These people should get like 5 seconds before you move them off
			§ Some people will read title line then leave
			§ Some people will read and then you get 15 seconds to actually hook the person
				□ The title on the poster is the bait on the hook. You're not targeting every single fish, you're looking for that exact fish that you're trying to catch
			§ What type of people are we looking for??
				□ Dev? Students? Employer?
				□ Think about how we structure our poster to reach and hook the exact person that we are looking to hook. 
				□ Think really hard about being in that room with that poster, and what it means to be successful??
					® I would make a sketch of our poster. This will allow for us to think about what we should include in our poster to support that title, then we will know what to focus on for our application and what we want that will hook and nail the people that we think matter
					® bboiko@uw.edu
Reward has to be associate with a small behavior. Every time you do a bad habit, negative reward. Good habit, positive reward
